.\" Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH gdesklets "1" "March 29, 2008"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
\fBgDesklets\fR \- provides an advanced architecture for desktop applets


.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gdesklets open [ display ]


.SH DESCRIPTION
.B gDesklets
provides an advanced architecture for desktop applets -- tiny displays sitting 
on your desktop in a symbiotic relationship of eye candy and usefulness.
.PP
Populate your desktop with status meters, icon bars, weather sensors, 
news tickers... whatever you can imagine! Virtually anything is possible 
and maybe even available some day. 


.SH FIRST START
You can find an entry in the GNOME menu after a successful installation. 
This will start the gDesklets Shell where you can install and run desktop
applets. When you log out or quit 'gDesklets', the settings will be remembered 
for the next session.


.SH COMMAND LINE TOOL
The command line tool \fBgdesklets\fR lets you perform all administration tasks
from the command line.

Display files can be opened using

.B $ gdesklets open <displayfile>

If the gdesklets-daemon wasn't running, this will start up the daemon as
well. You can only have one daemon per X-display. The daemon can be stopped
again by calling

.B $ gdesklets stop


Usage of the command line frontend:

.B gdesklets [option] <command> [arguments...]

  <command>: open <files>      (Opens the given display files)
             start             (Runs the gDesklets daemon)
             stop              (Stops the gDesklets daemon)
             list              (Lists open displays)
             restart           (Restarts the gDesklets daemon)
             profile <profile> (Switches to the given profile)
             profile           (Shows the current and the available
                                profiles)
             shell             (Opens the graphical shell)
             slay              (Kills the daemon -- use in emergency)
             status            (Checks daemon status)
             about             (Prints information about gDesklets)
             version           (Prints gDesklets version)
             configure         (Opens the configuration dialog)
             help              (Displays this text)
             check             (Dependency check for python bindings)


    [option]: --no-tray-icon   (disables the systray icon)

  If you don't pass a command, the script will fall back to
  \fBgdesklets start\fR which is the default.


.SH GDESKLETS-SHELL
The shell is a graphical frontend for managing your desklets. You can start
it either by selecting it from the GNOME menu (Accessories -> gDesklets),
by selecting it from the tray icon popup menu, or by calling:

.B $ gdesklets shell

The shell currently lets you create and switch between profiles, install new
desklets and search for desklets. New desklets can be installed by dragging
links from your web browser or files from the file manager into its window,
or by selecting the menu item \fB"File -> Install package..."\fR.

.PP
Displays (as we call the applets) will usually appear in the top left corner of 
your screen when you first run them. You can move displays around by pressing 
and holding down the middle mouse button. 'gDesklets' will remember the new 
position of the display for the future.


.SH USAGE
If you press the right mouse button over a display, a popup menu will open. 
It depends on the display what you will see there, but the following items are 
always available:
.PP
.HP
\fBConfigure desklet\fR
.IP
Opens the configuration dialog for this display. It depends on the display what 
you can configure.
.HP
\fBMove desklet\fR
.IP
Attaches desklet to cursor for moving it around. Click to release it.
.HP
\fBView Source\fR
.IP
Lets you view the desklet's source file (.display).
.HP
\fBRestart desklet\fR
.IP
Restarts this display. This menu item is mainly for sensor debugging.
.HP
\fBRemove desklet\fR
.IP
Removes this display from your desktop.
.HP
\fBAbout\fR
.IP
Lets you view desklet's "About" information, license and readme file.

.SH LOGFILE
The gdesklets-daemon writes a log file. That file can be found in
\fB~/.gdesklets/logs/gdesklets<display>.log\fR where \fB<display> is the name
of the X-Display.
.PP
You can select the item \fBView log\fR in the popup menu of the tray icon to
view the log messages.


.SH SUPPORTED WINDOW MANAGERS
In order to run on as many desktops as possible, gDesklets relies on the EWMH
specification from freedesktop.org. This specification is respected among many
window managers. We currently know of the following EWMH compliant window
managers:
.PP
.HP
\fB* metacity\fR
.HP
\fB* xfwm4\fR
.HP
\fB* openbox\fR
.HP
\fB* enlightenment\fR (>= 0.16.6)
.HP
\fB* fvwm\fR (2.5.x, see http://www.fvwm.org/features.php)
.HP
\fB* sawfish\fR
.HP
\fB* kwin\fR
.HP
\fB* evilwm\fR
.HP
\fB* fluxbox\fR (recent versions)
.HP
\fB* waimea\fR
.HP
* ...and certainly some others which we forgot here.

.SH MEMORY CONSUMPTION
This is taken seriously. In every release we're addressing these issues.
Unfortunately, gDesklets is relying on libraries which contain their own bugs
or leaks. In some places it's possible to create a work-around. Sometimes, we
.PP
have to wait until an issue in bugzilla is fixed.
gDesklets itself shouldn't leak. We've checked the relevant C code to make
sure of that.
.PP
At startup the program claims approximately 16 MB of RAM. In the future we're
going to decrease that number. Some people in the GNOME and GTK+ community
are also addressing these problems at a lower level (gtk+ and gnome libraries).
gDesklets will automatically benefit from these efforts.


.SH COMMUNITY
The site 'http://www.gdesklets.de' is the place where you can get new desklets
or upload your own creations for sharing them with other users.
.PP
Discussion and Help
http://mail.gnome.org/mailman/listinfo/gdesklets-list
.PP
gDesklets Developer's Book  (for developing on the gDesklets platform)
http://develbook.gdesklets.de
.PP
A printed reference in German language is available from 'Software & Support
Verlag GmbH'. The book 'Exploring Python' covers desklet development on 34 pages.
.PP
You can meet the 'gDesklets' developers and other fans on the IRC channel
#gdesklets on GIMPnet (irc.gimp.org).


.SH AUTHOR
.B gDesklets
was written by
.PP
  * Martin Grimme <martin@pycage.de>.
.PP
  * Christian Meyer <chrisime@gnome.org>.
.PP
  * Jesse Andrews <jdandr2@cs.uky.edu>.
.PP


.SH THANKS
I'd like to thank all people who supported (and are still supporting) me so 
well with 'gDesklets'. Please complain if I forgot you... ;)
.PP
  * Christian Meyer -- ideas and sensor programming
.PP
  * Jesse Andrews -- sensor programming
.PP
  * Johannes "Waldgeist" Rebhan -- artwork
.PP
  * Christian Neumair -- installation
.PP
  * Sebastien Bacher -- man page and lots of other stuff
.PP
  * Luke Stroven -- gdesklets.gnomedesktop.org and 'gDesklets' forum
.PP
  * James Henstridge -- excellent GTK bindings for Python
.PP
  * Joe Sapp  -- documentation
.PP
  * Bjoern Koch  -- additional programming, documentation
.PP
  * Robert Pastierovic  -- additional programming, documentation
.PP
  * Lauri Kainulainen  -- additional programming, gdesklets website


.SH BUGS
If you encounter bugs which are not listed here, please post a bug report at
https://launchpad.net/gdesklets/+filebug for \fBgDesklets\fR. Please don't
report useless bug reports, like "gDesklets crashes" without checking the log
file first, because that doesn't tell us much. Also make sure, that you have
all the necessary dependencies installed.
.PP
If the log says: "ImportError: No module named X" then you clearly don't have
the python module "X" installed on your system.
We are going to close useless bug reports immediately(!), so please save your
time and ours and be smart!


.SH LICENCE AND DISCLAIMER
.PP
This software is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTIBILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the file 'COPYING' for more details.
.PP
You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with 
this software; if not, write to the 
.PP
Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 390, Boston,
MA  02111-1307  USA
.PP
This software is provided "as is" and the author is not and cannot be made
responsible for any damage resulting from the use of this software.

.SH COPYRIGHT
.PP
\fBgdesklets\fR is copyright (c) 2003 - 2007 by
.HP
* Martin Grimme  <martin@pycage.de>,
.HP
* Christian Meyer  <chrisime@gnome.org>,
.HP
* Jesse Andrews  <jdandr2@cs.uky.edu>
.HP
* Benoît Dejean  <tazforever@dlfp.org>
.PP
\fBglibtop Python wrapper\fR in libdesklets is copyright (c) 2003 - 2005 by
.HP
* Benoît Dejean  <tazforever@dlfp.org>
.PP
The latest version of \fBgDesklets\fR can be found at http://www.gdesklets.de/
The \fBDesklets\fR bzr repository can be found at
https://code.launchpad.net/gdesklets/

